## SimpliCook

SimpliCook will provide a simplistic, and straightforward design where food lovers can easily look up, create, and share recipes with others on their phone or tablet. We aim to make the cooking process as efficient and easy as possible, helping users create step-by-step instructions for their recipes. We also want to provide a learning place for all food enthusiasts alike.
We want our users to inspire one another and try out a variety of different recipes by exploring tastes and flavours that they can discover. Further, the app will focus on providing personalized suggestions of recipes based on the user’s favourite recipes and type of diet. The app will be carefully designed to simplify the readability of the recipes, making it both convenient and easy to follow, catering to all users regardless of their culinary expertise.

The target audience is home cooks, food enthusiasts, health-conscious and frugal individuals, as well as those who follow restricted diets such as vegetarians, vegan, halal, keto etc. Because there are many diets, the app will allow users to specify if they follow any restricted diet(s). This will ensure recipes that do not follow their specific diet stay hidden. Additionally, users can include if they have any allergies or partake in any religions that forbid any types of foods, to help avoid recipes with those types of ingredients.

The app prioritizes providing users with the flexibility to personalize the content they want to see to suit their needs and tastes. For example, if they encounter a recipe that they do not want to come across again, they will have the option to avoid it, so it would not come up again. Alternatively, our audience may encounter that they are not just cooking for themselves, so they will still be able to find recipes that would otherwise be hidden for themselves if they choose. Also, users can create plans for recipes they want to make for the week. As a result, this will allow quick access to recipes when the time comes to cook.

The app will be a place where users can actively engage with one another, being able to share their opinions on each other's recipes. They can give their praises for wonderful recipes, as well as suggestions as to how one might further improve the recipe, such as different ingredients that others can try instead. This would allow the users to build a supportive and collaborative community, where individuals can connect, learn, and build a sense of belonging with other food enthusiasts. 

Our success is determined by the achievement of two specific goals. One key factor of success will be our users reporting that they have achieved a noticeable amount of improvement in their cooking skills and creativity with the use of the app. Getting user’s opinions will be done through voluntary surveys after regular use of the app. Another indicator of our success lies in the number of users that download the app, reflecting the reach of the app and its influence. 
